---
title: "Observability Toolkit"
date: 2024-01-22T20:58:23+01:00
pin: true

resources:
  - src: "**.{png,jpg,webp}"
    title: "Image #:counter"

tags:
  - Observability Toolkit
  - Grafana
  - Loki
  - Tempo
  - Prometheus
  - OpenTelemetry
---

Already for years I use several tools locally for all kind of situations for development and troubleshooting.

Two quotes from the book [Observability Engineering](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/observability-engineering/9781492076438/)

> Observability predominantly focuses on achieving a better understanding of the way software operates in the real world. 
> (Source: book Observability Engineering )


> We'll cover the fundamentals of observability. We'll examine why structured events are the building blocks
> of observable systems and how to stitch those events together into traces. Events are generated by telemetry
> that is built into your software, and you will learn about open source initiatives, like OpenTelemetry, that help
> jumpstart the instrumentation process.   
> You will learn about ***the data-based investigative process used to locate the source of issues in observable systems***,
> and how it differs substantially from the intuition-based investigative process used in traditional 
> monitoring. You will lean how observability and monitoring can coexist.
> (Source: book Observability Engineering )



> Can you share the setup you locally use?

Last year I was involved in the investigation of major incidents where I used `Promtail`, `Loki` and `Grafana` to find the cause.
Colleagues asked: Can you share the setup you use locally? Of course, and I shared a zip file with a `docker-compose.yml` and some config files.



With the new posts I will also try to update the Observability Toolkit as reference material (if applicable).

# As Docker Extension?

With Docker Desktop it is possible to install [Docker extensions](https://www.docker.com/products/extensions/) which will help the life of users.   
My thoughts are that is can be helpful to make the Observability Toolkit available as Docker extension.   
I have some ideas on how that should look like and how it can be created.   
Before spending time in creating an extension which will not be used at all, I would like to know if there is interest in such a Docker extension.    
Please leave a message below if you are interested.
